README.md, before:

# Chat Unreal

Unreal_Ai is a lightweight research assistant that blends a browser-based chat experience with a Python back end. The Flask server orchestrates conversation memory, optional privacy-preserving web lookups through Tor, and streaming interactions with an Ollama model running locally. The front end provides a clean single-page chat client styled with modern gradients and responsive layout.

## Features

- **Full-stack chat experience** – `Chat_Unreal.html` plus bundled CSS/JavaScript deliver a polished chat UI that talks directly to the Flask API.
- **Local model integration** – Proxies every user exchange to an Ollama-compatible chat endpoint configured in `config.json`.
- **Persistent memory** – Stores the last several user/assistant turns in `chat_memory.json` so the assistant can respond with continuity.
- **Optional Tor support** – When enabled, outbound web searches are routed through Tor for an additional layer of privacy.
- **Web research assist** – Detects natural-language requests to "search", "find", or "lookup" and adds contextual snippets from DuckDuckGo.
- **Structured logging** – Logs every interaction to `chat_unreal.log` for later analysis or auditing.

## Project layout

```
.
├── Chat_Unreal_Server.py   # Flask application with Tor-aware search and Ollama relay
├── Chat_Unreal.html        # Single-page chat client served by Flask
├── static/
│   ├── style.css           # Visual design for the chat experience
│   └── script.js           # Front-end chat logic and API integration
├── config.json             # Runtime configuration for Tor and model selection
├── chat_memory.json        # Persistent conversation history
├── chat_unreal.log         # Rolling server log of conversations
└── run.ps1                 # Convenience launcher for Windows environments
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or newer
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) running locally with the model specified in `config.json`
- (Optional) A Tor binary if you plan to enable Tor routing for search queries

You can use the provided `venv` directory or create your own virtual environment.

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
 git clone <your-fork-url>
 cd Unreal_Ai

# (Optional) Create and activate a virtual environment
 python -m venv .venv
 source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use: .venv\\Scripts\\activate

# Install Python dependencies
 pip install -r requirements.txt  # If you maintain your own requirements file
# or install the minimal set manually
 pip install flask requests beautifulsoup4
```

If you plan to rely on Tor, ensure it is installed locally and that you know the absolute path to the executable. On Windows the example path in `config.json` points to the Chocolatey installation of the Tor Browser bundle.

## Configuration

All runtime options live in `config.json`:

| Key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `model` | The Ollama model name that the server will pass to `http://localhost:11434/api/chat` (for example, `llama3` or `chatunreal`). |
| `cache_lifetime_hours` | Reserved for future caching behaviour (currently unused but retained for compatibility). |
| `use_tor` | Boolean flag; when `true`, web searches are proxied through Tor. |
| `tor_path` | Absolute path to the Tor executable. Required only if `use_tor` is enabled. |

Update the file to match your environment. For cross-platform setups, consider maintaining separate configuration files (for example `config.windows.json`, `config.linux.json`) and copying the appropriate one before launching the server.

## Running the server

1. Ensure your Ollama daemon is running and serving requests on `http://localhost:11434`.
2. Activate your Python environment.
3. Launch the Flask server:

   ```bash
   python Chat_Unreal_Server.py
   ```

   The application starts on `http://127.0.0.1:4891` by default. The console prints a banner once Flask is ready.

If Tor support is enabled, the server will attempt to start Tor in a background thread during initialisation. *** Use a VPN ***

### Using the chat client

- Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:4891/` in your browser.
- Type a message in the input field and press **Send** (or hit **Enter**).
- The assistant responds using the selected Ollama model and supplements responses with recent conversation context stored in `chat_memory.json`.
- To trigger a web-assisted answer, include language such as "search for", "find information on", or "lookup" in your prompt.

### API access

If you prefer to integrate the back end with another client, POST JSON payloads directly to `/api/chat`:

```http
POST /api/chat
Content-Type: application/json

{ "message": "Explain how Tor integration works." }
```

The response envelope contains a single `response` field with the assistant's reply.

## Data and logs

- **Conversation memory** – `chat_memory.json` keeps a running list of turns. Clear or delete the file to reset the assistant's memory.
- **Logs** – `chat_unreal.log` captures timestamps, user prompts, and AI replies. Rotate or archive this file regularly to manage disk usage.

## Development tips

- Use `static/script.js` to adjust the front-end behaviour (for example, adding streaming responses or Markdown rendering).
- Update `static/style.css` to customise branding, colour schemes, or layout.
- Extend `Chat_Unreal_Server.py` to add authentication, alternative search providers, or richer context injection.

Contributions, issues, and suggestions are welcome. Happy hacking!

Commit message:

Ensure Tor availability for research traffic

README.md, after:

# Chat Unreal

Unreal_Ai is a lightweight research assistant that blends a browser-based chat experience with a Python back end. The Flask server orchestrates conversation memory, optional privacy-preserving web lookups through Tor, and streaming interactions with an Ollama model running locally. The front end provides a clean single-page chat client styled with modern gradients and responsive layout.

## Features

- **Full-stack chat experience** – `Chat_Unreal.html` plus bundled CSS/JavaScript deliver a polished chat UI that talks directly to the Flask API.
- **Local model integration** – Proxies every user exchange to an Ollama-compatible chat endpoint configured in `config.json`.
- **Persistent memory** – Stores the last several user/assistant turns in `chat_memory.json` so the assistant can respond with continuity.
- **Optional Tor support** – When enabled, *all* outbound research traffic (including standard web pages) is routed through Tor for an additional layer of privacy.
- **Web research assist** – Detects natural-language requests to "search", "find", or "lookup" and adds contextual snippets from DuckDuckGo.
- **Structured logging** – Logs every interaction to `chat_unreal.log` for later analysis or auditing.

## Project layout

```
.
├── Chat_Unreal_Server.py   # Flask application with Tor-aware search and Ollama relay
├── Chat_Unreal.html        # Single-page chat client served by Flask
├── static/
│   ├── style.css           # Visual design for the chat experience
│   └── script.js           # Front-end chat logic and API integration
├── config.json             # Runtime configuration for Tor and model selection
├── chat_memory.json        # Persistent conversation history
├── chat_unreal.log         # Rolling server log of conversations
└── run.ps1                 # Convenience launcher for Windows environments
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.9 or newer
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) running locally with the model specified in `config.json`
- (Optional) A Tor binary if you plan to enable Tor routing for research queries. When enabled, the server ensures the Tor SOCKS proxy is reachable before performing lookups.

You can use the provided `venv` directory or create your own virtual environment.

## Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
 git clone <your-fork-url>
 cd Unreal_Ai

# (Optional) Create and activate a virtual environment
 python -m venv .venv
 source .venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use: .venv\\Scripts\\activate

# Install Python dependencies
 pip install -r requirements.txt  # If you maintain your own requirements file
# or install the minimal set manually
 pip install flask requests beautifulsoup4
```

If you plan to rely on Tor, ensure it is installed locally and that you know the absolute path to the executable. On Windows the example path in `config.json` points to the Chocolatey installation of the Tor Browser bundle.

## Configuration

All runtime options live in `config.json`:

| Key | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `model` | The Ollama model name that the server will pass to `http://localhost:11434/api/chat` (for example, `llama3` or `chatunreal`). |
| `cache_lifetime_hours` | Reserved for future caching behaviour (currently unused but retained for compatibility). |
| `use_tor` | Boolean flag; when `true`, the server ensures the Tor SOCKS proxy is reachable and proxies research requests through it. |
| `tor_path` | Absolute path to the Tor executable. Required only if `use_tor` is enabled or if the binary is not discoverable on the system PATH. |

Update the file to match your environment. For cross-platform setups, consider maintaining separate configuration files (for example `config.windows.json`, `config.linux.json`) and copying the appropriate one before launching the server.

## Running the server

1. Ensure your Ollama daemon is running and serving requests on `http://localhost:11434`.
2. Activate your Python environment.
3. Launch the Flask server:

   ```bash
   python Chat_Unreal_Server.py
   ```

   The application starts on `http://127.0.0.1:4891` by default. The console prints a banner once Flask is ready.

If Tor support is enabled, the server will attempt to start Tor in a background thread during initialisation and wait for the SOCKS proxy to accept connections before continuing. *** Use a VPN ***

### Using the chat client

- Navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:4891/` in your browser.
- Type a message in the input field and press **Send** (or hit **Enter**).
- The assistant responds using the selected Ollama model and supplements responses with recent conversation context stored in `chat_memory.json`.
- To trigger a web-assisted answer, include language such as "search for", "find information on", or "lookup" in your prompt.

### API access

If you prefer to integrate the back end with another client, POST JSON payloads directly to `/api/chat`:

```http
POST /api/chat
Content-Type: application/json

{ "message": "Explain how Tor integration works." }
```

The response envelope contains a single `response` field with the assistant's reply.

## Data and logs

- **Conversation memory** – `chat_memory.json` keeps a running list of turns. Clear or delete the file to reset the assistant's memory.
- **Logs** – `chat_unreal.log` captures timestamps, user prompts, and AI replies. Rotate or archive this file regularly to manage disk usage.

## Development tips

- Use `static/script.js` to adjust the front-end behaviour (for example, adding streaming responses or Markdown rendering).
- Update `static/style.css` to customise branding, colour schemes, or layout.
- Extend `Chat_Unreal_Server.py` to add authentication, alternative search providers, or richer context injection.

Contributions, issues, and suggestions are welcome. Happy hacking!
